post about graph coloring (#3)
Julian/lftim: _posts/2022-01-09-Graph-Coloring-Basics.md

layout: post
title: "Graph Coloring Basics"
date: 2022-01-09
categories: graph

Prelude:

* [Graph homomorphism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_homomorphism)
* [NP-hardness](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NP-hardness)

# Graph Coloring Basics

> In Graph Theory, finding a proper coloring of a graph regards to attributing "colors"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Graph Theory, finding a proper coloring of a graph consists of attributing "colors"
```

to its vertices in a way that adjacent vertices have different colors.

[In Lean](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib/pull/10287), a coloring (short
for "proper coloring") is represented as a homomorphism from the graph being colored to
the complete graph of available colors. Let's seen an example of how this works.

> Suppose we have a graph `G` that we want to color with three colors: `c1`, `c2` and `c3`.

Reviewer: You can maybe use the subscripts here too

```suggestion
Suppose we have a graph `G` that we want to color with three colors: `c₁`, `c₂` and `c₃`.
```

```
      G            Complete graph of colors
  D-------A                   c₁
  |       | \                /  \
  |       |  C              c₂---c₃
  |       | /
  E-------B
```

The following mapping can be seen as a coloring of `G`:

```
A → c₁
B → c₂
C → c₃
D → c₂
E → c₃
```

Now note that this mapping is in fact a homomorphism. And you may wonder, why does such
a homomorphism represent a coloring?

> Informally, consider two adjacent vertices in G. Since our mapping is an homomorphism,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Informally, consider two adjacent vertices in G. Since our mapping is a homomorphism,
```
